# License Agreement

This is a legal agreement between you, the end user, and Lattice Semiconductor Corporation if you are an end user located in the United States or Lattice SG Pte. Ltd. if you are an end user located in a country other than the United States. By proceeding with the installation or use of the Software you acknowledge you have read this Agreement, you understand it, and you agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement. If you do not agree to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, do not use, download, or install the Software, and if you have already obtained the Software from an authorized source, promptly return the media package and all accompanying items (including written materials and binders or other containers) to the place you obtained them for a full refund of any applicable license fees.
Lattice Semiconductor Corporation or Lattice SG Pte. Ltd. ("Lattice") and the individual or entity acquiring the Software ("Licensee") agree as follows:

1.  DEFINITIONS
"Software" means the computer program(s) in machine-readable form furnished to Licensee by Lattice, in whatever media and by whatever method, which are enabled for use pursuant to Lattice's software protection mechanism, and for which Licensee has paid any applicable license fees.  Software includes any related update or upgrade programs that may be added from time to time.

2.  SOFTWARE LICENSE
a.  Lattice hereby grants to Licensee a non-exclusive, nontransferable license to use the Software for Licensee's internal purposes only on any computer possessed by Licensee on which the Software is designed to operate, such use to be in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
b.  Pursuant to this Agreement, Licensee may (i) physically transfer any Software from one computer to another; and (ii) use the Software and any output files generated by the Software for the sole purpose of designing and programming semiconductor components manufactured by or for Lattice and sold by Lattice or its authorized distributors ("Lattice Devices"); and (iii) make copies of the Software solely for Licensee's own use.  
c.  Third Party Components. Certain open source or free software ("Open Source Software") distributed with the Software are licensed from third parties and subject to separate license terms (the "Open Source Software License Terms"). The applicable Open Source Software License Terms are set forth in a directory named "Open Source Licenses" that is generated as part of the Software install process. If you do not want to be bound by the Open Source License Terms, you must immediately cease use of the Software and uninstall the Software.
d.  Licensee shall include Lattice's (and Lattice's suppliers', as applicable) copyrights, trademarks, and other proprietary notices on any copies of the Software.
e.  Licensee shall not distribute, copy, transfer, lend, incorporate, modify, or use the Software for any purpose except as expressly provided herein.
f.  If Licensee fails to comply with the provisions of this Agreement, this license is automatically terminated.
g.  Except for the rights expressly granted herein to Licensee, the title and all intellectual property rights in and to the Software and any copy of the Software which may be made by Licensee hereunder remain the sole and exclusive property of Lattice and/or Lattice's licensors.
h.  Licensee acknowledges that obtaining a license for the Software does not entitle Licensee to technical support from Lattice regarding the Software. However, Lattice will use commercially reasonable efforts to respond to technical support inquiries from Licensee regarding the Software.  Response times to inquiries for technical support are not guaranteed and will be established by Lattice in its sole discretion. 

3.  LIMITED WARRANTY AND REMEDIES
a.  If the Software has been provided on tangible media, then Lattice warrants to Licensee that the media containing the Software will be free from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of delivery. 
b.  Subject to applicable laws, during the 90-day warranty period, the entire liability of Lattice and its licensors to Licensee, and Licensee's exclusive remedy under this warranty after Licensee's return of the defective Software media, will be for Lattice, at its option, either to replace any such Software media or refund any applicable license fee paid by Licensee to Lattice and terminate this License Agreement.  Any replacement Software or media will be warranted for the remainder of the original warranty period or thirty (30) days, whichever is longer.
c.  Any products which are not returned to Lattice within the warranty period or which have been subject to accident, abuse, misuse, alteration, neglect, or unauthorized repair or installation are not covered by warranty.

4.  WARRANTY DISCLAIMER
EXCEPT FOR THE ABOVE EXPRESSED LIMITED WARRANTIES, LATTICE MAKES NO WARRANTIES ON THE SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESSED, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR IN ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT OR COMMUNICATION WITH LICENSEE, AND LATTICE SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  LATTICE DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET LICENSEE'S REQUIREMENTS, OR THAT LICENSEE'S OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE, OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE SOFTWARE WILL BE CORRECTED.  LICENSEE ASSUMES RESPONSIBILITY FOR SELECTION OF THE SOFTWARE TO ACHIEVE ITS INTENDED RESULTS, AND FOR THE PROPER INSTALLATION, USE, AND RESULTS OBTAINED FROM THE SOFTWARE.  EXCEPT FOR THE ABOVE EXPRESSED LIMITED WARRANTIES, LICENSEE ASSUMES THE ENTIRE RISK OF THE SOFTWARE PROVING DEFECTIVE OR FAILING TO PERFORM PROPERLY AND IN SUCH EVENT, LICENSEE SHALL ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST AND RISK OF ANY REPAIR, SERVICE, CORRECTION, OR ANY OTHER LIABILITIES OR DAMAGES CAUSED BY OR ASSOCIATED WITH THE SOFTWARE.  LATTICE'S SOLE LIABILITY, AND LICENSEE'S SOLE REMEDY, IS SET FORTH ABOVE.  LATTICE DOES NOT WARRANT THAT USE OF THE SOFTWARE DOES NOT INFRINGE ON THIRD PARTIES' INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.

5.  SOURCE CODE
Licensee shall not attempt to reverse translate, decompile or otherwise attempt to derive the source code of the Software.  In the event any source code is explicitly licensed to Licensee as part of the Software, such limitation will not apply to such source code.  Licensee shall not alter or remove from the Software any copyright, trademark or other proprietary notices of Lattice and/or Lattice's licensors.  Any use or attempted use of the Software in violation of the foregoing restrictions is a breach of the Agreement which will cause irreparable harm to Lattice, entitling Lattice to injunctive relief in addition to all legal remedies.

6.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
a.  Licensee agrees that Lattice's entire liability to Licensee and Licensee's sole remedy hereunder for any cause whatsoever, regardless of the form of the action, shall be limited to the price paid to Lattice for the Software.
b.  IN NO EVENT WILL LATTICE OR ANY OF ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR SPECIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING EXPENSES, LOST PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS, OR OTHER DAMAGES OF ANY SORT ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF LATTICE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

7.  DEFAULT AND TERMINATION
Lattice licenses the Software for an indefinite term. Accordingly, this Agreement will continue indefinitely, until and unless terminated. This Agreement will terminate automatically in the event Licensee fails to perform any of its obligations hereunder.  Licensee may terminate this Agreement at any time by returning to Lattice the original and all copies of the Software or by destroying the Software together with all copies thereof.  Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, Licensee shall either return to Lattice the original and all copies of the Software, or, upon Lattice's request, destroy such original and copies and provide Lattice with written certification of their destruction.  The obligations of Lattice and Licensee under the provisions of Sections 2.g, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 will survive any termination of this Agreement.  

8.  EXPORT CONTROL
Licensee shall not export the Software or the direct product thereof without first obtaining any necessary U.S. or other governmental licenses and approvals.  In connection with such export control compliance, Licensee certifies as follows:
* that Licensee is not on the Denied Persons List maintained by the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security;
* that Licensee is not on the list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasury;
* that Licensee is not a citizen or resident of, or an agent of, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Sudan, or Syria, or any other country to which export of the referenced Software is prohibited; and
* that Licensee is legally permitted, under all applicable export and commerce control laws and regulations, to receive the referenced Software.

9.  U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS
The Software and any accompanying documentation provided to agencies of the U.S. Government are "commercial computer software" and "commercial computer software documentation" pursuant to DFARS 227.7202 and FAR 12.212, and their successors. All use, reproduction, release, performance, display or disclosure of the Software and related documentation by or for the U.S. Government shall be in strict accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  Contractor/manufacturer is Lattice Semiconductor Limited c/o Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, 111 SW 5th Ave., Suite 700, Portland, Oregon 97204 and its licensors.

10.  INFORMATION REGARDING PERSONAL DATA.
If you downloaded this Software from our website, we have collected information about you, including your name and contact information, from the information you provided when you registered to use the website. If you acquired the Software from a source other than our website, we will ask you for certain information, including your name and contact information, as part of the installation procedure. 

11.  GENERAL.
IF LICENSEE IS LOCATED IN THE UNITED STATES, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF OREGON, U.S.A. WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ANY CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES.  IF LICENSEE IS LOCATED IN A COUNTRY OTHER THAN THE UNITED STATES, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ANY CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES.  THE APPLICATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON CONTRACTS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL SALE OF GOODS IS EXPRESSLY EXCLUDED. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE INTERPRETED OR CONSTRUED SO AS TO LIMIT OR EXCLUDE THE RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS OF LICENSEE OR LATTICE WHICH IT IS UNLAWFUL TO LIMIT OR EXCLUDE UNDER APPLICABLE LAWS, INCLUDING THE LAWS OF ANY MEMBER STATE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION WHICH IMPLEMENTS RELEVANT EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES COUNCIL DIRECTIVES. Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, Licensee may not sublicense, assign, or transfer this license or the Software.  Any attempted assignment, transfer or sublicense by Licensee in violation of this provision shall be void. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the parties. The prevailing party in any legal action or arbitration arising out of this Agreement shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, in addition to any other rights and remedies such party may have. This Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties with respect to use of the Software and supersedes any other communications or prior agreements, oral or written, regarding the Software.  If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, the remainder of the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
Please direct all inquiries, in writing, to Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, 111 SW 5th Ave, Suite 700, Portland, Oregon 97204.
Lattice Patent Rights
This Software is made available for use under a license from Lattice to all applicable U.S. and foreign patents, subject to the conditions and restrictions provided by this License Agreement.  Applicable patents are contained in the Legal Notice located at: http://www.latticesemi.com/About/LegalNotices.aspx
Lattice does not represent that products described herein are free from patent infringement or from any third-party right.
Trademark Rights
This Software may contain registered trademarks of Lattice or third parties.  Such trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
The Software governed by this License Agreement is Copyright (c) 2023 Lattice Semiconductor Corporation.  


All rights reserved.  
2023-03-05
